.TH ADF_FORMAT 1 "Mar 2024"
.SH NAME
adf_format \- create a classic AmigaDOS filesystem (OFS/FFS) on an ADF or HDF volume.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B adf_format
.RB [ -l \fIlabel\fP ]
.RB [ -p \fIvolume\fP ]
.RB [ -t \fIfstype\fP ]
.RB [ -fvhV ]
.I adf_device


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBadf_format\fR is a simple utility allowing to create a classic AmigaDos-type
filesystem (OFS or FFS) on the selected volume of an ADF (Amiga Disk File)
or HDF (hard disk file) device.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-f
Force formatting, even if the volume already contains a filesystem.
WARNING: potential data loss - be sure what you are doing!
.TP
.B \-l
Specify the volume's name (label), default: an empty string.
.TP
.B \-p
Specify the index of the volume/partition, default: 0.
(Currently cannot use other than 0, partitioned, multi-volume devices are not supported (yet...).
.TP
.B \-t
Set AmigaDOS filesystem type, default: 1 (FFS).

The type of the filesystem image can be chosen by specifying
the \fBfstype\fR parameter, which  can be 0-7 (flags = 3 least significant bits):

         Bit  Set         Clear
         ------------------------------
         0    FFS         OFS
         1    INTL ONLY   NO_INTL ONLY
         2    DIRC&INTL   NO_DIRC&INTL

(For details about the filesystem types, check the documentation, link in the NOTES below).
.TP
.B \-v
More verbose output.
.TP
.B \-h
Shows help info.
.TP
.B \-V
Shows version.

.SH EXAMPLES
\fBadf_format -l MyDisk1 -t 3 myamigadisk1.adf\fR
    - creates:
      - filesystem:           FFS+INTL (1+2)
      - with the label:       MyDisk1
      - on the volume:        0
      - of the adf device:    myamigadisk1.adf
.SH LIMITATIONS
Currently it can only format volumes of unpartitioned devices, so those containing
a single volume using the whole device (so ADF/floppy disks and HDF/hard disk files).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adf_floppy_create (1), adf_show_metadata (1), unadf (1)
.SH NOTES
Detailed info about Commodore Amiga filesystems: http://lclevy.free.fr/adflib/adf_info.html#p41
.SH AUTHOR
\fBadf_format\fR was written by \fBTomasz Wolak\fR <tomas.wolak@gmail.com>,
as part of the ADFlib (https://github.com/lclevy/ADFlib).
.PP
