.TH ADF_SALVAGE 1 "May 15 2024"
.SH NAME
adf_salvage \- show or recover (in the future - extract) deleted files from an ADF device.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B adf_salvage
.RB [ -h ]
.RB [ -v ]
.RB [ -V ]
.RB [ -p ] \fIvol\fP
.I <\fIadf_device\fR>
.RB [ \fIsector...\fP ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBadf_salvage\fR is a filesystem utility allowing to display or to recover
(possibly, in the future, also to extract) deleted files from an OFS/FFS volume of
an ADF device.
.PP
When called with just the name of an ADF device, it shows the list of deleted files,
along with the position (as sector/block number) of their file header blocks.
The undelete can be performed by adding the list of positions of the file header
blocks of the deleted files to the command.
.SH WARNING
PLEASE NOTE THAT THIS IS AN EXPERIMENTAL UTILITY, USE IT ON A COPY NOT
THE ORIGINAL DEVICE! (ESPECIALLY IF THE FILESYSTEM USES DIRCACHE!).
.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of the options.
.TP
.B \-h
Show help.
.TP
.B \-v
Be more verbose.
.TP
.B \-V
Show version.
.TP
.B \-p \fIvol\fP
Specify volume/partition number (counting from 0), default: 0

.SH EXAMPLES
\fBadf_salvage mydisk.adf\fR
.RS
Shows list of deleted entries (files, directories) on the volume 0 of mydisk.adf
.RE

\fBadf_salvage -v -p 1 mydisk.adf 884 1000\fR
.RS
Undeletes files which file header blocks are at the specified sectors of
the second volume/partition (the first is 0), the sectors number should be
taken listing the deleted entried (running this withouht any sector numbers).
More verbose during the operation.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR adf_show_metadata (1), unadf (1), adflib (3)
.SH NOTES
Detailed info about Commodore Amiga filesystems:
http://lclevy.free.fr/adflib/adf_info.html
.SH AUTHOR
\fBadf_salvage\fR was written by \fBTomasz Wolak\fR <tomas.wolak@gmail.com>,
as a part of the ADFlib (https://github.com/lclevy/ADFlib).
.PP
