.TH UNADF 1 "May 24, 2023"
.SH NAME
unadf \- extract files from an Amiga Disk File dump
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B unadf
.RB [ -l ]
.RB [ -r ]
.RB [ -c ]
.RB [ -s ]
.RB [ -m ]
.RB [ -p ]
.RB [ -w ]
.RB [ -v \fIvol\fP ]
.RB [ -d \fIdir\fP ]
.I filename.adf
.RB [ \fIfiles...\fP ]

.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBunadf\fP is a program that extracts files from an Amiga Disk File dump.
.PP
\fBunadf\fP supports dumping the native filesystems of both Amiga floppy disks
and Amiga hard disks.
.PP
By default, \fBunadf\fP extracts all files it finds. To extract only specific
files, list them with their full path after the dump filename.
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-l
Lists root directory contents.
.TP
.B \-r
Lists directory tree contents.
.TP
.B \-c
Use dircache data (must be used with \-l).
.TP
.B \-s
Display entries logical block pointer (must be used with \-l).
.TP
.B \-p
Pipe extracted files to stdout (unadf \-p dump.adf Pics/pic1.gif | xv \-).
.TP
.B \-w
Mangle extracted filenames so they meet Windows file naming requirements.
Forbidden characters and trailing dots or spaces will be replaced with an
underscore, and an underscore will be inserted if a filename would otherwise
be invalid (e.g. "CON.txt" becomes "CON_.txt", "prn" becomes "prn_")
.TP
.B \-v \fIvol\fP
Mount volume #vol instead of default #0 volume.
.TP
.B \-d dir
Extract to 'dir' directory.
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR xdms (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
unadf was originally written by Laurent Clevy <laurent.clevy@club-internet.fr>.
Current version was developed by Stuart Caie <kyzer@cabextract.org.uk>.

.PP
This manual page was written by G\[:u]rkan Seng\[:u]n <gurkan@linuks.mine.nu>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
